.\" groff -Tascii -man
.TH "ROVERLAY" "1" "July 9 2012" "Linux/Gentoo?" "R Overlay"

.SH "NAME"
roverlay \- create and maintain an overlay of R packages

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.TP
.BR "roverlay " "[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIcommand\fR]..."
.TP
.BR "roverlay " "\fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-help\fR"
.TP
.BR "roverlay " "\fB\-\-help-config\fR"
.TP
.BR "roverlay " "\fB\-\-print-config\fR"
.TP
.BR "roverlay " "\fB\-V\fR | \fB\-\-version\fR"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
todo
.SH "COMMANDS"
.TP
.BR sync
Sync all repos. Has no effect if you don't specify at least one remote repository.
.TP
.BR create
Create the overlay - read R packages and try to create ebuilds for them.
Implies \fBsync\fR unless \fB\-\-nosync\fR is given.
This is the default command.
.TP
.BR nop
no-op. To be removed.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR "\-\-help " "(\fB\-h\fR)"
Print a help message and exit
.TP
.BR "\-\-version " "(\fB\-V\fR)"
Print the program's version and exit
.TP
.BR "\-\-help\-config"
Print all known config options and exit
.TP
.BR "\-\-print\-config"
Print the config tree after reading the config file and exit
.SS "configuration files"
.TP
.BR "\-\-config " "\fIfilename\fR"
Read the main configuration from \fIfilename\fR instead of ${PWD}/R-overlay.conf
.TP
.BR "\-\-deprule\-file " "\fIfilename\fR (\fB\-D\fR)"
Read dependency rules from \fIfilename\fR instead of reading the
files listed in the main config (\fISIMPLE_RULES_FILE\fR).
Can be specified more than once.
.TP
.BR "\-\-field\-definition " "\fIfilename\fR (\fB\-F\fR)"
Read the field definition from \fIfilename\fR instead
of the \fIFIELD_DEFINITION\fR file specified in the main config.
.TP
.BR "\-\-repo\-config " "\fIfilename\fR (\fB\-R\fR)"
Read the repo config from \fIfilename\fR instead
of the files listed in the main config (\fIREPO_CONFIG\fR).
Can be specified more than once.
.SS "R packages"
.TP
.BR "\-\-distdir" "\fR, " "\-\-from " "\fIdirectory\fR"
Create ebuilds for packages in \fIdirectory\fR.
Implies \fBcreate\fR and \fB\-\-nosync\fR.
Disables all other repos.
.TP
.BR "\-\-distroot " "\fIdirectory\fR"
Set the distroot to \fIdirectory\fR.
This is used as root for all per-repo package dirs that don't define another location.
.TP
.BR "\-\-force\-distroot"
Use the distroot even for repos that define their own location.
.TP
.BR "\-\-nosync" "\fR, " "\-\-no\-sync"
Disable repo syncing (offline mode). Blocks the \fBsync\fR command.
.SS "overlay"
.TP
.BR "\-\-show" "\fR, " "\-\-show\-overlay"
Print ebuilds/metadata after creation to stderr.
.TP
.BR "\-\-write" "\fR, " "\-\-write\-overlay"
Write the whole overlay after creation.
This includes ebuilds, metadata, Manifest files and the profiles/ dir.
.TP
.BR "\-\-stats" "\fR, " "\-\-no\-stats"
Print some stats after overlay creation/writing.
.TP
.BR "\-\-overlay " "\fIdirectory\fR (\fB\-O\fR)"
Set the overlay directory to \fIdirectory\fR. Else
\fIOVERLAY_DIR\fR from the main config will be used.
Implies \fB\-\-write\fR.
.TP
.BR "\-\-overlay\-name " "\fIname\fR (\fB\-N\fR)"
Set the overlay name to \fIname\fR.
Else \fIOVERLAY_NAME\fR from the main config will be used.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
roverlay \-c \fIconfig\fR
Run overlay creation with sync, all options (overlay name/dir,...) are read from \fIconfig\fR
.TP
roverlay \-\-from \fIpkgdir\fR \-O \fIoverlay\fR \-N R_Overlay \-\-field-definition \fIfield_definition\fR \-D \fIdeprules\fR
Run overlay creation for packages from \fIpkgdir\fR and write the overlay named R_Overlay to \fIoverlay\fR.
Use the given \fIfield_definition\fR and \fIdeprules\fR files.
.br
!!! This should do without a config file (FIXME)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "roverlay\-repo(5)",
.BR "roverlay\-deprules(5)"
